Chapter 16: The Void         
Emptiness consumed her. 
Rocks kicked against the bottom of the load bay. The engine purred. Glass clinked and boxes slid across metal grating.
Runa opened her eyes sluggishly to the familiar compartment. Her drained limbs refused to obey her command. Haphazardly stuffed boxes lined the shelving above her. Half were missing. Her stomach hurt as though a dagger stabbed her center. A dark nothing lurked just within, as indescribable as the light’s command. She wrested herself upright. 
Black, silken strands tumbled into view. Her hand touched it, as she felt the tug against her scalp.
The nothing grew. It crept within her hand and skin, clawing at the pores in her skin, begging for release, for consumption. An unfamiliar malady crawled through her throat, spreading past her tongue and lips. Her shrill terror blasted through the metal tomb. 
“Runa?” Max’s voice called from the front. The truck jerked backward as it slowed to a stop. He leapt from the driver's seat and froze in the partition, staring at her. Runa’s hands clawed through her hair revealing broken tufts of ink and gold.
“What’s happening?” Runa sobbed as her head slipped backwards. Rapid footsteps clopped across the metal floor. Soft and strong hands caught her, as Max’s verdant eyes slid into view. His face bore burned scars across his brow and chin. Cold tears dripped on her face, quelling the creeping absence.
“Sorry,” he said as he rested her head on the ground. “I’m so sorry.” His face stayed fixed in her sight as though she saw him for the first time.  His dripping nose swept smoothly from his brow. His green eyes laid deep with their sockets. The burns on his chin jutted away from his angular jaw. A thick hand reached up and wiped his eyes. “Rest. I'll explain.” He stood and walked to the front, gently closing the partition.
The truck bumped and swayed beneath her. His tears slid down her face, tickling her skin. The jars clinked in their cardboard containers as Runa rolled to her side. She pressed down against the floor and slipped,slapping her face against the frigid steel. A tired bemoaned sigh escaped her lips as she laid against the rumbling ground. The truck slowed, before coming to a stop. The partition opened as steps echoed through the metal.
“Runa?” Max whispered, kneeling behind her. A finger brushed her shoulder. Her skin recoiled at the touch. She rolled onto her back, fleeing downward into the cold floor. The man’s green eyes rose into view. They lingered, darting as his hand touched his chin. Flecks of hazel stared at her,  as though piercing straight through her. Her gaze shot up to the ceiling.
“Don’t look at me,” she muttered.
Max snapped from his trance and rested his heavy gaze on the shelf. Tension eased across Runa’s aching muscles. Her hand covered her throbbing stomach.
“I… I need to eat something,” Runa grumbled.
“Ok,” Max said, “I found us a place to stay for a while, until you recover.”
“Where are we?” She asked.
“Outskirts of John Day, a small town in Oregon,” Max explained. “You’ve been unconscious for two weeks,”
Runa looked at Max, her brow was upturned sharply.
“Two weeks?” She asked. A glint of blue reflected off a jar, bringing the phantom call of gunfire and screaming. Ethereal bites and burns crawled across her skin as the blue light faded from view. Her hand gripped the messily tied sash at her waist as sweat beaded on her brow.
“The… the Fetter,” she stammered.
“Dead,” Max stated. “I killed him.” his cold eyes descended from the shelf, landing back into hers. 
