Genre,Subgenre,Description
Literary Fiction,,Fiction focused on character development, thematic depth, and stylistic complexity rather than plot-driven narratives; often explores the human condition and employs sophisticated literary techniques.
Historical Fiction,Traditional Historical,Fiction set in the past featuring detailed period settings and often incorporating real historical figures and events alongside fictional characters.
Historical Fiction,Alternate History,Fiction that explores how history might have unfolded differently if certain events had occurred differently (e.g., if the South had won the Civil War).
Historical Fiction,Historical Romance,Fiction combining historical settings with romantic relationships as central plot elements; balances historical authenticity with romantic development.
Historical Fiction,Historical Fantasy,Fiction set in historical periods but incorporating fantasy elements such as magic or mythical creatures alongside historical settings.
Science Fiction,,Fiction based on imagined future scientific or technological advances and major social or environmental changes; explores the consequences of scientific innovations.
Science Fiction,Hard Sci-Fi,Fiction emphasizing scientific accuracy and technical detail; rigorously adheres to established scientific principles and limits speculation to extensions of existing science.
Science Fiction,Soft Sci-Fi,Fiction focusing more on social sciences than physical sciences; emphasizes human experience and societal implications over technological details.
Science Fiction,Cyberpunk,Fiction featuring advanced technology alongside societal breakdown; typically depicts near-future dystopias with high tech/low life dichotomies and human-machine interfaces.
Science Fiction,Space Opera,Fiction featuring grand, sweeping adventures in space with large-scale conflicts, colorful characters, and exotic settings; emphasizes drama and adventure over scientific accuracy.
Science Fiction,Time Travel,Fiction centered around the concept of moving between different points in time; explores paradoxes, alternate timelines, and historical intervention.
Science Fiction,Post-Apocalyptic,Fiction set after a catastrophic event has destroyed civilization; depicts survival in radically transformed environments.
Science Fiction,Steampunk,Fiction set in alternate histories where steam power remains the dominant technology; typically features Victorian aesthetic with advanced mechanical technology.
Science Fiction,Biopunk,Fiction focusing on biotechnology revolution and genetic manipulation; explores the social implications of synthetic biology and genetic engineering.
Science Fiction,Solarpunk,Fiction envisioning sustainable futures where technology and society have been reconfigured to address environmental challenges; typically optimistic about human adaptation.
Science Fiction,Military Sci-Fi,Fiction focusing on military conflicts in futuristic settings; emphasizes military technology, tactics, and the experiences of soldiers.
Science Fiction,Utopian,Fiction depicting idealized future societies that have solved contemporary social problems; presents visions of perfected social organization.
Fantasy,,Fiction featuring magical elements and settings that defy natural laws; creates secondary worlds with their own internal logic and consistency.
Fantasy,High Fantasy,Fantasy set in completely fictional worlds with elaborate magical systems and mythologies; often features epic conflicts between good and evil.
Fantasy,Low Fantasy,Fantasy set in the real world or a world very similar to our own but with magical elements; magic is limited or rare.
Fantasy,Urban Fantasy,Fantasy set in contemporary urban environments where magical elements exist alongside mundane reality; often features supernatural creatures living secretly among humans.
Fantasy,Dark Fantasy,Fantasy incorporating elements of horror; creates atmospheres of dread and explores disturbing themes while maintaining fantasy elements.
Fantasy,Epic Fantasy,Fantasy featuring world-changing conflicts, elaborate quests, and complex character ensembles; typically spans multiple volumes and involves saving the world.
Fantasy,Sword and Sorcery,Fantasy focusing on swashbuckling heroes engaging in personal battles rather than world-saving quests; emphasizes action and adventure.
Fantasy,Fairy Tale Retellings,Fantasy that reimagines or reinterprets traditional fairy tales with new perspectives, settings, or thematic emphases.
Fantasy,Mythic Fantasy,Fantasy drawing heavily from existing world mythologies; adapts or reimagines myths from various cultures.
Fantasy,Historical Fantasy,Fantasy incorporating historical settings and events but adding magical elements; blends historical fiction with fantasy elements.
Fantasy,Contemporary Fantasy,Fantasy set in the modern world; magical elements exist alongside contemporary culture and technology.
Fantasy,Portal Fantasy,Fantasy featuring transportation between our world and a fantasy realm through some form of gateway; explores the contrast between worlds.
Fantasy,Grimdark,Fantasy characterized by cynicism, moral ambiguity, graphic violence, and pessimistic worldviews; subverts traditional fantasy tropes and heroic archetypes.
Mystery,,Fiction centered around solving a crime or puzzle; typically follows investigators uncovering clues and reaching conclusions through logic.
Mystery,Detective,Mystery featuring a professional or amateur detective as the protagonist; focuses on the investigator's methodology and character.
Mystery,Cozy Mystery,Mystery set in small, intimate communities with limited violence; typically features amateur sleuths and emphasizes puzzle-solving over gritty realism.
Mystery,Noir,Mystery characterized by cynicism, fatalism, moral ambiguity, and a bleak urban setting; often features flawed protagonists and femme fatales.
Mystery,Police Procedural,Mystery focusing on realistic depiction of police work; emphasizes teamwork, forensics, and the methodical process of investigation.
Mystery,LockedRoom,Mystery presenting seemingly impossible crimes, typically murders committed in sealed environments with no apparent means of entry or exit.
Mystery,Historical,Mystery set in past time periods; combines historical fiction elements with detective work appropriate to the era.
Mystery,Sleuth,Mystery centered around an investigator with specialized knowledge or skills; protagonist often has a unique approach to solving crimes.
Mystery,Legal,Mystery set in legal environments featuring attorneys, judges, and courtrooms; often combines crime-solving with courtroom drama.
Mystery,Supernatural,Mystery incorporating paranormal or supernatural elements; investigator may use non-traditional methods to solve crimes with otherworldly aspects.
Thriller,,Fiction designed to provoke excitement, suspense, and anticipation; maintains high tension and often features life-or-death situations.
Thriller,Psychological Thriller,Thriller emphasizing the unstable mental states of characters; focuses on psychological conflicts and mind games rather than physical action.
Thriller,Legal Thriller,Thriller set in legal environments; builds tension around court cases, legal conflicts, and the justice system.
Thriller,Political Thriller,Thriller involving political power struggles, conspiracy, or terrorism; often explores corruption or ideological conflicts.
Thriller,Action Thriller,Thriller emphasizing physical danger and fast-paced action sequences; protagonist typically possesses exceptional skills.
Thriller,Espionage/Spy Thriller,Thriller focusing on intelligence operations, espionage, and international intrigue; features spies, double agents, and covert operations.
Thriller,Medical Thriller,Thriller set in medical environments; often involves disease outbreaks, medical experiments gone wrong, or medical conspiracies.
Thriller,Techno-Thriller,Thriller featuring advanced technology as a major plot element; blends thriller conventions with science fiction elements.
Thriller,Conspiracy Thriller,Thriller centered around elaborate conspiracies involving powerful organizations; protagonist typically uncovers layers of deception.
Thriller,Domestic Thriller,Thriller focused on threats within seemingly normal domestic environments; explores danger in intimate relationships and settings.
Horror,,Fiction intended to frighten, shock, or disgust; evokes feelings of dread and explores primal fears.
Horror,Gothic Horror,Horror featuring gloomy settings, supernatural elements, emotional intensity, and romantic overtones; often set in decaying mansions or castles.
Horror,Psychological Horror,Horror emphasizing mental, emotional, and psychological disturbance rather than physical threats; explores inner fears and mental breakdown.
Horror,Supernatural Horror,Horror featuring ghosts, demons, or other paranormal entities; focuses on forces beyond scientific explanation.
Horror,Body Horror,Horror emphasizing graphic physical destruction, mutation, or disease; explores anxieties about bodily vulnerability and transformation.
Horror,Cosmic Horror,Horror emphasizing the insignificance of humanity in the face of incomprehensible cosmic forces; creates dread through the revelation of human meaninglessness.
Horror,Folk Horror,Horror drawing on folklore, paganism, and rural traditions; often features isolated communities with sinister practices.
Horror,Slasher,Horror featuring a psychopathic killer methodically murdering a group of victims; emphasizes graphic violence and suspense.
Horror,Zombie Fiction,Horror featuring reanimated corpses; often explores societal breakdown and survival in post-apocalyptic settings.
Horror,Vampire Fiction,Horror centered around vampires and their interactions with human society; explores themes of seduction, immortality, and predation.
Horror,Ghost Story,Horror featuring the spirits of the dead; explores hauntings, unfinished business, and the relationship between the living and dead.
Romance,,Fiction focused on romantic relationships between characters and typically featuring optimistic endings; explores emotional development and connection.
Romance,Contemporary Romance,Romance set in modern times; explores relationships within contemporary social contexts and challenges.
Romance,Historical Romance,Romance set in past time periods; combines historically accurate settings with romantic relationships.
Romance,Paranormal Romance,Romance featuring supernatural elements such as vampires, werewolves, or magic; blends romantic plots with fantasy elements.
Romance,Romantic Suspense,Romance combined with thriller or mystery elements; balances relationship development with danger and suspense.
Romance,Erotic Romance,Romance with explicit sexual content; focuses on both emotional and physical aspects of relationships.
Romance,Regency Romance,Romance set specifically in the British Regency period (1811-1820); features distinctive social customs and class structures.
Romance,Inspirational Romance,Romance promoting religious or spiritual values; often contains faith elements and lacks explicit sexual content.
Romance,Time-Travel Romance,Romance featuring relationships between characters from different time periods; often involves characters transported through time.
Romance,Queer Romance,Romance featuring LGBTQ+ protagonists and relationships; explores diverse sexual and gender identities.
Adventure,,Fiction focusing on exciting, risky undertakings in exotic or challenging environments; emphasizes action, danger, and exploration.
Adventure,Classic Adventure,Adventure following traditional patterns of quests and journeys; often features heroic characters overcoming obstacles.
Adventure,Survival,Adventure focusing on characters struggling against extreme conditions or environments; emphasizes resourcefulness and endurance.
Adventure,Sea Adventure,Adventure set primarily at sea; features maritime challenges, piracy, or naval conflicts.
Adventure,Jungle Adventure,Adventure set in tropical forests; often involves exploration, lost civilizations, or wildlife dangers.
Adventure,Arctic Adventure,Adventure set in polar regions; features extreme cold, isolation, and navigational challenges.
Adventure,Treasure Hunting,Adventure centered around the search for valuable artifacts or wealth; combines action with puzzles and historical elements.
Adventure,Exploration,Adventure focusing on the discovery of unknown territories; emphasizes mapping, first contact, and scientific discovery.
Western,,Fiction set primarily in the late 19th century American West; features frontier settings and themes of law, lawlessness, and settlement.
Western,Traditional Western,Western adhering to conventional formulas and archetypes; often features clear moral distinctions and frontier justice.
Western,Revisionist Western,Western challenging or subverting traditional western myths; presents more complex historical perspectives and moral ambiguity.
Western,Weird West,Western incorporating supernatural or science fiction elements; blends western settings with fantasy or horror tropes.
Western,Contemporary Western,Western set in modern times but maintaining western themes and sensibilities; explores the persistence of frontier values.
Dystopian,,Fiction depicting societies characterized by misery, oppression, and disaster; explores totalitarianism, environmental collapse, or technological control.
Utopian,,Fiction depicting idealized societies with perfect or near-perfect social, political, and legal systems; presents visions of human potential and social harmony.
Satire,,Fiction using humor, irony, exaggeration, or ridicule to expose and criticize foolishness or corruption; holds up human vices and follies to ridicule and scorn.
Satire,Political Satire,Satire specifically targeting political figures, parties, or systems; uses humor to criticize political power and decisions.
Satire,Social Satire,Satire targeting social conventions, classes, or behaviors; exposes hypocrisies and absurdities in human society.
Satire,Literary Satire,Satire parodying literary conventions, styles, or specific works; comments on literary trends or pretensions.
Crime,,Fiction centered around criminal activities and their consequences; explores motivations for crime and its impact on individuals and society.
Crime,Hard-Boiled,Crime fiction featuring tough, cynical characters and graphic descriptions of violence and sex; emphasizes the seedy underbelly of society.
Crime,Gangster,Crime fiction focusing on organized crime; depicts the operations and culture of criminal organizations.
Crime,Caper/Heist,Crime fiction centered around elaborate, often ingenious thefts or cons; emphasizes planning, execution, and complications.
Crime,True Crime,Crime fiction based on actual crimes; combines factual research with narrative techniques.
Realism,,Fiction attempting to represent familiar things as they actually are; emphasizes accurate description of everyday life and social environments.
Realism,Social Realism,Realism focusing on the lives of working-class and impoverished characters; depicts social problems and inequalities.
Realism,Kitchen Sink Realism,Realism emphasizing the gritty, mundane aspects of working-class domestic life; avoids romanticization or melodrama.
Realism,Psychological Realism,Realism focusing on accurate representation of mental and emotional processes; emphasizes interior lives and motivations.
Surrealism,,Fiction incorporating dreamlike imagery and juxtapositions; disrupts logical connections to access deeper realities or unconscious mind.
LitRPG,,Fiction combining elements of video games with traditional storytelling; features characters navigating game-like worlds with explicit rules and statistics.
Bildungsroman,,Fiction focusing on the psychological and moral growth of the protagonist from youth to adulthood; traces personal development and maturation.
Picaresque,,Fiction depicting the adventures of a roguish hero from low social class who lives by their wits in a corrupt society; episodic structure with satirical elements.
Speculative Fiction,,Broad category encompassing elements that do not exist in reality or nature; includes science fiction, fantasy, horror, supernatural, and other non-realist genres.
Speculative Fiction,Cli-Fi,Speculative fiction dealing with climate change and global warming; explores potential consequences of environmental transformation.
Speculative Fiction,Afrofuturism,Speculative fiction incorporating elements of black history and culture; explores the intersection of African diaspora with technology and science fiction.
Speculative Fiction,Slipstream,Speculative fiction blending mainstream literary fiction with genre elements; creates cognitive dissonance with non-realistic content in realistic settings.
Erotica,,Fiction focusing primarily on sexual feelings and experiences; aims to arouse readers with explicit sexual content.
Erotica,Contemporary Erotica,Erotica set in modern contexts; explores contemporary sexual attitudes and practices.
Erotica,Historical Erotica,Erotica set in past time periods; combines historical settings with explicit sexual content.
Erotica,Paranormal Erotica,Erotica incorporating supernatural elements; features sexual encounters with paranormal beings or involving magical elements.
War,,Fiction centered around armed conflicts between nations or groups; explores combat experiences and the psychological and social effects of war.
War,Historical War Fiction,War fiction based on actual historical conflicts; combines military history with fictional characters and narratives.
War,Modern War Fiction,War fiction dealing with contemporary or recent conflicts; addresses modern warfare technologies and tactics.
War,Speculative War Fiction,War fiction imagining future conflicts or alternate history wars; explores hypothetical military scenarios and technologies.
Sports,,Fiction centered around athletic competition; explores the culture of sports, team dynamics, and the psychological aspects of competition.
Humour,,Fiction intended to amuse and provoke laughter; uses wit, exaggeration, incongruity, or absurdity to create comic effects.
Humour,Dark Humour,Humour treating serious, disturbing, or painful subject matter in a light or satirical way; finds comedy in traditionally taboo subjects.
Humour,Absurdist Humour,Humour based on deliberately illogical or irrational situations; rejects rational explanation and embraces nonsense.
Humour,Satirical Humour,Humour using irony, exaggeration, or ridicule to expose and criticize follies; combines comedy with social criticism.
Humour,Parody,Humour imitating the style or character of a particular work, genre, or author with deliberate exaggeration for comic effect; comments on the original through imitation.